In this video we'll take a brief look at the history of C++ based on some major language milestones.
In the early 1970s Dennis Ritchie created the C programming language at Bell Labs.
The development of C was closely tied to the development of the Unix operating system, In 1979,
Bjarne Stroustrup started working on what became C++.
He initially called it C with classes.
His idea was to add to C object-oriented features that he knew from a language called Simula.
In 1983, the name was changed to C++ and the first commercial release was in 1989.  In 1998,
The C++ standards committee published the first C++ standard informally known as C++ 98.
Multiple issues with C++ 98 were addressed and the C++ 03 standard was released. Then in mid-2011 the
C++ 11 standard was released and then after that C++ 14 and C ++ 17.  As you can see C++
has been around for quite some time.
Notice that I've bolded and italicized the last three standards.
These standards are sort of a renaissance for C++ that changed the language going forward.
These changes are what modern C++ is all about. Generally C++
that's based on the language as defined before the C++ 11 standard is considered classical C++ and C++
based on C++ 11 and forward is considered Modern C++.
That's fine but what does that mean.
Well, modern C++ is a way of saying that it's C++ as defined today. With new ways of managing objects
and memory, lambdas, smart shared pointers, threading and more.
These terms may not mean anything to you yet,  but modern C++ feels like a new programming language when
compared to classical C++.
In fact, Bjarne Stroustrup described modern C++ as a new language, one with modern abstractions for ease
of use and power. Along with the language features themselves, modern C++ is also about best practices
and core guidelines and this course will be using modern C++.
As we go through the course.
I'll sometimes mention that this feature was introduced in C++ 11 or C++ 14 and so forth.
I'll do that for a few reasons, but the most important is that you know where to look for this feature
as your C++ studies continue after you've finished this course.
I'll also show you best practices and gotchas that you should be aware of.
If you're new to programming you may be wondering how all this works.
After all, it sometimes seems like magic.
How can we get a computer to do what we want it to do using a programming language.
Let's see in the next video.